= Apdex Score Calculator Plugin =
One of the challenges when analyzing performance test results is to make a pass/fail call. Given your statistical summary results (average, min, max, percentiles etc.), you have to decide how close or far your application is from your SLAs.<br>
The [http://www.apdex.org/ Apdex] (Application Performance Index) was precisely designed to make this task easier for you. It defines [https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/real-user-monitoring/basic-concepts/ratings/apdex-ratings/ ratings] from "Unacceptable" up to "Excellent" that will help you find how your app stands out.<br>
This plugin parses the results of a JMeter test and calculates the Apdex score and rating of every sampler.

Apdex metric is also included in JMeter's [https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/generating-dashboard.html Report Dash board]. But this plugin provides a quick and easy way to get the Apdex score at the end of a test without having to go through the full dash board report.<br>
Once you have specified the Tolerated threshold, the plugin will compute the Apdex score of the samples and display the results in a table. In this table, when the number of samples is less than 100, the plugin will mark them as "Small Group" as a precaution. You can export this table into a file should you wish to add the Apdex results in your test report.

== Pass / Fail Test ==
To help in Pass/Fail testing, the plugin lets you specify a minimal threshold for the Apdex score. Any samplers which have their score less than this threshold shall be marked as "failed" in the results table.<br>
The default value of the threshold is 0.85, which corresponds to Apdex's "Good" rating lower limit. By changing this value, you can be more or less forgiving.<br>

== Setup ==
Download the plugin using the JMeter Plugins Manager.

== Usage via the GUI ==
Add the plugin to a Test Plan via the "Add > Non-Test Elements" menu.<br>
[https://github.com/rbourga/jmeter-plugins-2/blob/main/tools/apdexcalculator/src/site/img/wiki/apdex_NonTestElement.PNG NonTestElement]

=== Apdex Calculations ===
Specify the JMeter results file and your Satisfied Threshold T in seconds (default value is 4s) and hit "Calculate".<br>
If your target threshold is in milliseconds, then convert it to seconds before entering T. For instance, if you want to check APIs against a threshold of 500ms, enter T as "0.5".<br>
The plugin parses the data and shows the results in a grid, together with their Apdex rating.<br>
[https://github.com/rbourga/jmeter-plugins-2/blob/main/tools/apdexcalculator/src/site/img/wiki/apdex_Calculate.PNG Calculate]

=== Saving the Apdex results ===
By clicking on the "Save" button, the plugin will copy the Apdex results into a csv file which you can then import into your final test report.<br>
[https://github.com/rbourga/jmeter-plugins-2/blob/main/tools/apdexcalculator/src/site/img/wiki/apdex_Save.PNG SaveTable]

== Usage via Command Line ==
You can call the Apdex calculator in a script as in the following example:<br>
<code>java -jar cmdrunner-x.y.z.jar --tool ApdexScoreCalculator --input-file inputfile.jtl --target-thld 0.5 --min-score 0.85</code>

Parameters are:<br>
* cmdrunner-x.y.z.jar = cmdrunner present in your jmeter/lib directory;
* input-file: <filenameIn>;
* target-thld <satisfied target threshold in seconds>;
* min-score <minimum score to pass>;

The plugin will return the number of failed samplers in the exit code, allowing to fail the build step in the CI/CD tool if the build process of the tool uses a non zero exit code as a failed indicator.<br>
It will also save the results of the Apdex computation in a "inputfile_ApdexScore.html" file.

== See also ==
* [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apdex Apdex(Wikipedia)]
